I'm honest yen I think those are all
probably questions worth asking the
probably if some other person did that
showed up and said hey I really want to
talk to during writer about the bad
advice he's giving people to drop out of
school it's another issue the bad impact
seven people's Ilia pram stole she
dropped at a high school to go to chain
my and do that test bag test bag dropped
out of high school to do this I don't
approve of that I don't I really think
there were moral issues there I think
during writer gave terrible bass to
everybody including Julia Bohr this
hilarious video where he told Julia more
she could be an Olympic athlete no she
can't she don't tell her to drop out of
school to beat Olympic athlete don't
tell her to drop her to school to be an
Instagram model or you didn't cigar that
is absolutely terrible advice he's off
to everybody laughing and smiling now he
knows just what I'm talking about this
guy's dr. evil pazzo vinegar means his
40 year old creeper six foot five 120
kilo guy thinking his car with such a
stun bag personally I don't he is such a
scumbag so learn her lesson moving on
social media I those parents a multi
millionaires like actually he said
they're not Mira Nancy last-second multi
moon is really pernicious sneaky
[ __ ]
his parents are multi multi-millionaire
so Doc table probably spent in KFC or
hookers in Beijing uncle he's nature
very predatory and did go to court I'll
be well testified and that is yen so
good good question this is basically
asking could this be turned around could
this have a happy ending could we patch
it up and move on I'm going to ask well
I'm going to answer both in the past
tense and in the present tense at that
time it was totally possible durianrider
one year ago even if you just had the
boxing match with me think about how
much more positive the current situation
would be because you know it's hard to
take that kind of ease even if you was
angry when he came to the boxing match
at the end of it you know we will both
would have been laughing you don't I
mean like any situated so ridiculous if
you actually met me at the boxing match
I'm sure he would have left with a smile
on his face and it'd be patched up and
be no big deal if he had actually met me
at the police station and pressed his
criminal charges against me I'm sure it
would be patched up there'll be no big
deal if he had met me in a cafe
I don't know 50-50 chance but maybe it
would invention maybe would have meant a
cafe and he would have just screamed at
me and wouldn't applause I don't know
there was his behavior I don't you know
I don't know how that would went but
sure one year ago I reached out
positively to him I reach ito pause way
too freely I apologized too freely you
know that made him balaji video freely
just cuz hardly asked me to even though
they're all the threats of violence sure
he totally could have taken
responsibility for his actions
and turned it around there is no
question but that is not the game he
plays the game is is that he wants to
destroy people you know and um you know
today what's what's possible you know
what positive can come out of it I I was
just teaching class yesterday to
children
two or three days before I was teaching
university age students at the
university like one year ago I was
applying for jobs teaching children in
Japan I work with children I work with
teenagers right now I'm teaching most of
my students about 20 years old
University do this this impacts my life
you know like this impacts my life and
like you know a vegan vegan Ava was
saying recently that when people call
her a pedophile on the internet she
doesn't care oh I don't know Ava what
ambitions do you have in life you know
what I mean
now again Ava's situation is totally
different from mine there's no
comparison but you know if I'm applying
for jobs well I'm going through a
custody battle for my own daughter right
now I'm in court trying to just have my
human rights crammed to me for custody
for my own daughter or I'm applying for
jobs in Japan and China I work with
children I work with teenagers all of
these allegations it's foul it has real
consequences and it already has had real
consequences my life in my personal life
and my professional life this is going
to impact the whole rest of my life so
when you look at in that context what
can durianrider do that's positive to
make it better there probably is an
answer but you know it would be a big
effort on his part
sure look maybe leave the second
question later XO that's a good question
okay so the question is what to me is
basically is it pause
of all the durianrider sincerely believe
the allegations he made against me that
this isn't just uh you know an instance
your attempt to you know destroy my life
uh no it's not possible and there are
two different angles the first I'm going
to do the short one first one just go
back and read the actual conversation he
and I had provided Facebook messages
which is posted in my video that has
threats in the title so during writers
threats in his own words and you get to
see that absolutely nothing he said and
absolutely nothing he did at any point
is consistent with somebody who was
sincerely concerned who was actually
trying to establish the facts or
actually trying to protect someone who
had you never he never did or said
anything that would be consistent with
that and if you look back at the
beginning the nature of the lies he was
telling they kept shifting and they were
just based on his own life that he was
making up so that is one side of it is
just go back and look at what he
actually said and he also admits openly
that he just had no information he has
comments of shown screenshots of this
where he just makes these allegations
against me and he says but that's just
my opinion
hey or against um he just says he made
it up because of the way my face looks
but when he looks at my face that's what
he thinks about me so he himself is
admitting there is death the truth he
said that like more than ten times he
said that's just my opinion just looking
at his face that's the kind of guy I
think he is and that's it so it's not
really credible to say at any stage but
especially when you look back at the
early stage when he was just making this
stuff up and he had more Hearst at ten
times dead this ever was basis in this
era the other thing is in terms of the
secret origin of the conflict a lot of
people forget what happened at the very
beginning okay Julia Bohr we have to
give Julia more credit with this it is
not her fault
Julia Bohr she was a very colorful
character
Julia Bohr said crazy stuff about me
suggesting that I work for the CIA that
I'm some kind of mysterious person same
kind of stuff other other people instead
of a minute the time but Julia Bohr
never once claimed or insinuated there
was anything sexual between us she never
claimed there's anything inappropriate
about the email between us I mean
her own email was probably pretty
inappropriate and what have you Julia
Bohr did not make any of this up and we
have to really give her credit for that
what actually happened was there was a
third person in the Triangle who was
Lauren Kenzi
so Lauren he used to be known as the
vegan lass she then became Lauren
Phoenix she now uses name Lauren Kenzi
Lauren Kenzi briefly was friends with
all of us she was friends with
durianrider with Julia and with myself
at the same time and people who asked
people very rarely ask me people who
asked why did I send the first message
of Julia just a positive measure saying
oh hey I'm also going to chain my what's
up there is an answer that question I've
mentioned a couple videos the answer is
because Julia and Lauren used to hate
each other they hated each other really
really viciously and it videos
shouting curse words at each other and
then Julia was reasonable and she just
decided to settle it and patch it up and
they became friends they had this like
mature conversation so I was friends
with Lauren and Lauren was friends with
Julia and Julia had just proven that she
could be like reasonable and mature and
be like oh hey like this is just you two
but I don't really hate you right she
had just done that with Lauren and at
that time like I think it only lasted
for like three weeks but at that time
Lauren and Julia were friends so Julia
really was a friend of a friend Lauren
was my friend and she they had just
patched it up so it actually wasn't
unreasonable for me to think oh well
look you know if you can patch it up
with with Lauren hey I'm just going to
give you a shout-out say hey you know
almost give me a mine they look one
thing that on to that if Julia had
responded positively or neutrally what
would have happened I can tell you
exactly would have happened Julia would
have come to the karaoke night I hosted
remember I did a karaoke night and we
had about 12 people there you know it
wasn't a huge Amann Julia could have
just been at that event she would just
would have been one of their vegans she
wouldn't met 12 vegans would have had
you know we had conversations about
stuff there would have been absolutely
nothing inappropriate Amina me know just
would have been another night during she
was into town for months and months on
vacation she would have just come to
that event that would have been it like
you know nothing else would you said
okay like she'd written back in kind of
a read
neutral way I would have just sent her
an invitation when I was there saying
aye hey look I'm doing this karaoke
night if you want to come you can meet a
few other you know a few other vegans
who are on YouTube
done that's it you know what I mean
I've never was any possibility or
anything else the question was
specifically was there anything special
about the message to Julia boar or did I
basically email like everybody in
Chiangmai yeah the answer is I basically
email it ready Jim I yeah so no it
wasn't it wasn't special which also is
weird and I mean during writer tried to
blacken me with that to sing like Oh
like this guy is contacted like a
hundred vegans like yeah you know I'm a
vegan youtuber like you know yeah and in
Facebook groups as well as email I was
just like oh hey look I'm inching my you
know if you want to meet up we're going
to set and the karaoke night as an
example that was open to absolutely
everybody that was announced on my
youtube channel and on Facebook and
probably in an email sent to I don't
know minimum twenty people I don't know
if I sent 50 people but however many
emails ahead so know all that stuff was
was was open everybody yeah you know
Julie Julia Bohr was never a special
Lawrence person to me but we had a
friend of a friend in common and that
was that was situation yeah and it's
interesting note so like other people
like foot soldier they try to criticize
me for my failure to reach out and try
to do something positive with vegans who
are my enemies so to speak and on the
contrary the thing with Julia is an
example of exactly that they say hey
this person I'm going to reach out to
them in a positive way even though they
apparently hate me you know just so you
see what you can build on and again at
that time she was a friend of Laurens
Lauren was a friend of mine and Lauren
was so long and enduring writer directly
okay so that's why that happened at all
what happened next is that Lauren talked
to durianrider and durianrider took that
as an excuse to start this incredible
war against me and for a long time
Lauren felt really guilty about it she
felt like the whole thing was her fault
and I've had to say to Lauren and
repeatedly look Lauren during Ryder's
reaction this was completely
unreasonable it doesn't matter what you
said the during Ryder it doesn't justify
or explain anything did this is a guy in
my opinion who's psychotically just
loves to get it'll just be a [ __ ]
just be a shit-ton scamming hustlers
stole six nine thousand dollars off his
audience the Bastille is just harassing
chicks on tumblr got a lot of money
money and daddy's money nervously
self-made is feed off people these
parents are multi multi-millionaire in
China holding some weird microphone
Apple things you've got a lot of money
you're a rich spoiled brats and sour
[ __ ] you're so boring not to
listen to you it will see that this
Libeccio guy has been harassing women
over social media ayahs or Mossad is the
kid the rich fat kid of parents from
Lourdes cultural resource so [ __ ] you
doing chasing teenage girls
hundreds of them online her a son of
multi million a multi-million dollar
parents and imagine why he's in Asia the
mind can only wonder asking them on
tumblr and you got a buddy daughter
units in McCarthy and you're not even
parent child support and you're taking
your wife or son apparently led to the
way here to court said have to pay job
child support or whatever year old six
foot five 120 120 kilo douchebag creep
bag I got so much money man
you're like a multi-million your parents
are [ __ ] bankrolling your lifestyle
allegedly and but it's all true expected
ex likely dealer only the deep is the
rich kid living in Asia could be for
various reasons you can imagine why for
your old man is living in Asia
multi-millionaire trust fund kid money
for mommy and daddy them back it doesn't
generate child support is no longer
allowed to see his child anymore
[ __ ] look like ah you are in
[ __ ] [ __ ] and you sit on your
[ __ ] fat ass doing [ __ ] all and you
in [ __ ] China and a you in dog
festival-goer and you call yourself a
[ __ ] activist you're a [ __ ] [ __ ]
man predator aisel super rich kid we're
talking millions of dollars we're
talking the big money here eyes'll has
he poses as is porcini reason why
fled to China once again pay child
support odd matters what this
multi-millionaire son gets up to in
China and I'm from a bigger tire owner
and jealous fat slob bald head crate
looking 6-4 520 lat like a male 16 year
old girls that he's got a kid he hasn't
talked to either he moved to China he
refuses to pay child support to his kid
who's guys has taken the money I mean
but you will notice in the latest video
angry vegan did were angry vegan
interviewed during writer
he also names Lauren as the court source
of that right that he talked to he says
some girl named Lauren who was in
Scotland talked in and that that was his
pretext or his excuse or his motivation
for starting us so no there there there
it is not possible that during Ryder was
sincerely responding to what Lauren said
down because again Lauren and I were
friends I sent her a private video
message at that time we'd later did a
podcast together it is not humanly
possible that durianrider had the
sincere delusion that I was romantically
involved with both Lauren and Julia bore
when Julia was living in Germany Lauren
was living in Scotland I was living in
Victoria none of us had any interest in
each other
julia was an ugly stupid foul-mouthed
teenager who was extremely overweight
and Lauren was struggling with recovery
from anorexia
she was underweight she was extremely
skinny and during writers don't forget
his original claim was that I was
involved with both of them which was
completely impossible completely
laughable and he later dropped the claim
that I was somehow sexually involved
with Lauren for no reason I guess
because he realized it made his whole
story seem ridiculous and even more
difficult to believe but yeah that was
his original claim of chemo he claimed I
was involved with two underage went
women because jury writer falsely
assumed that Lauren aka the vegan lasted
Lauren was also underage and she's not
Lauren's a fully grown woman but because
she's so skinny
it's really hard to judge your age by
her face so the question you're asking
boils down to did I want to go
ol to Chiangmai uninvited in order to
confront Harley enduring Raider I think
that kind of sums it up in one sentence
as someone who's not advice
yeah okay well that that would be a bit
more grandiose okay so the question
boils down to did I go to Chiang Mai
with the intention of disrupting the
festival or of confronting hardly
entering rather or what have you as
someone uninvited who's just in that
same city okay now I have answered this
in other videos especially getting the
technical details of exactly why I
arrived when I did and why I left when I
did I had a job I was enrolled in the
university program was enrolled in a
language program at a college all this
stuff but that's not really what this
questions about the question is about in
my heart of hearts did I want to
confront during Ryder and his the scene
the social scenes he's created in Chiang
Mai did I want a kind of theater of
ideas to unfold I think would be the
most shared way to summarize this view
of it so that that was asked to me in
another conversation a dialogue I did
with dumb vegan and we talked about we
talked about that at some wedding um the
first part of my response has to be is
other people have done that in the past
and if that were true of me it's not
really such a big deal Briona jackfruits
I went two years in a row not just
uninvited but you remember this
durianrider made videos slamming her
sledging her to use during writers views
during writer made a whole bunch of
video saying that brianna jackfruits and
was a terrible person saying that she
was secretly had anorexia and eating
disorders saying that she's not a real
vegan she's a fake vegan and telling her
not to come to the festival and
something terrible would happen to her
she came it's festival and she went
anyway two years in a row she she went
and confronted and confronted all the
Chiangmai people and I think it did help
her channel grow I think she now is
quite quite a big following quite a big
viewer base so Brianna jackfruits indid
that she's not the most gangster youtube
channel out there you know what I mean
she's not like some kind of tough guy it
wasn't that big a deal now again if you
just look into you just ask her quite a
few other people did that people who
were not supporters of raw till 4 were
not invited but they showed up and
talked to people and I think Breanna
actually went to festival event so I
never did I never wanted to disrupt the
festival um so that's kind of point one
with a lot
the allegations against me I have to ask
well if that were true is that really
such a bad thing or does that justify
anything during writers and against me
so if that were true why are you saying
this stuff about my mom why why aren't
you treating me as a human being if that
were true why is it instead with my
daughter
but though my divorce why what any of it
you know why are you saying that I'm not
a sexual predator why are you making
these kinds of criminal allegations
against me it doesn't explain anything
if that were true no as it happens it's
not true in my case
but I would say I think if somebody else
did that if somebody else showed up and
said look if somebody else showed up and
said look these are the issues I'm
passionate about I'm passionate about
the future of the vegan movement I'm
passionate about the difference between
pseudoscience and real science I really
care about the fact that during write or
falsely claimed Ichiro's disease I
really care about the fact that freely
is publishing lies and they have
themselves defamed and slammed so many
other people how many channels how many
lives is durianrider ruined
to be blunt in freelee's case it's a
little bit less vile it freely had
really denounced and defamed and Sledge
a whole bunch people are my friends at
that time we already had controversy
freely and Aaron Janis so many people
pizanno hennya the list goes on and on
so many people have attacked well if I
had showed up saying let's just say it
was busy no and hang on
let's just say I showed up I want to
talk to jury writer face-to-face say hey
because he knows my friend why'd you do
this soon let's say that was true does
that make me a terrible person
let's say I showed up and I was like hey
you know what I want to confront her I
want to ask him hey man why are you
lying that you clerk cured Crohn's
disease why are you lying about
schizophrenia because I know people this
is really impacted I've had email from
people and I've talked to people where
your message is really impacted lives if
I did that does that make me a bad
person is that maybe a good person
right now as they as it happens it's not
true I did want to talk to you I did
want to meet face to face
Lia pram Staller who was there I did
want to be face to face a couple of
other vegans who were generally like me
who were fans in my channel at the time
I met Gaia Gaia is now known as Hannah's
ex-girlfriend
fascinating you know really brilliant
and this
vegan activist hope the guy goes on new
buzz makes movement I mean just now you
know I went I met up with Dexter Chiang
Mai's a city I never went to the
festival I never went to convert to a
writer I never talked to them I never
made any attempts to contact during
write or freely so this was a conflict a
hundred percent created from from during
writers side but I just want to
challenge the audience if if that were
true you know let's judge everyone
fairly and equally and you know I think
those are all probably questions worth
asking probably if some other person did
that showed up and said hey I really
want to talk to during my tour about the
bad advice he's giving people to drop
out of school it's another issue the bad
impact seven people died Lia prams
though she dropped at a high school to
go to chain mind do that test bag test
bag dropped out of high school to do
this I don't approve of that I don't I
really think there were moral issues
there I think during writer gave
terrible vice to everybody including
Julia Bohr this hilarious video where he
told Julia Bohr she could be an Olympic
athlete no she can't she don't tell her
to drop out of school to be an Olympic
athlete don't tell her to drop her to
school to be an Instagram model or you
just Cesare that is absolutely terrible
advice he's off to everybody's laughing
and smiling now he knows just what I'm
talking about this guy's so sure I mean
if someone did show up at the festival
wanting to talk to jury writer about any
of those issues you know I don't know I
think I would recognize that as a really
positive thing and as a courageous thing
and as soon as motivated busted by the
future of being in movement by keeping
it all the way real I was only inching
mine for a couple days I had to get my
visa paperwork in order
I was already enrolled in lessons and
starting a new job so I didn't I didn't
really want deal with any of it so hey
if anything I would criticize myself
because that's not what I did we can
talk about anything anything you want to
talk about anything one
so by the way I do have I do have videos
about that so there are a couple of
issues my change of name I have a recent
video that talks about that for you know
so long videos I was put at a depth
called my nom de guerre so nom de guerre
is a French phrase that we use in
English but that talks about the death
of my father in my family situation but
I changed my name long long ago but look
the most obvious sign that during writer
was lying about that
why does my ex-wife have the same name
that I do if I changed my name after we
got divorced why does she have the same
name I do right so not only did I change
my name long before that but max wife
knew about it and she wanted my current
name also right so she's her last name
is still Mazar and they said ard wheeze
and my daughter's name is Mazar also we
all have the same name so the idea that
I changed my name afterwards must be a
lie my daughter and ex-wife would not
have the same name of me as if that were
true so otherwise what do you what do
you want to know the situation I mean it
should be obvious to everyone that
absolutely everything during writer is
saying about this is a lie and is
motivated by malice and is meant to harm
me
now again so like look just sit before
like if you actually have a conflict
with somebody whether it's about
politics or weight loss but whatever the
topic is why are you trying to destroy
your life their lives
why is during a writer talking about my
divorce and the custody my daughter at
all why would you have anything to say
about it positive or negative what does
that have to do with you know veganism
or his false claims to have cured
Crohn's disease like that was our
original dispute the first video during
writer ever made responding to me was
about Crohn's disease that's the first
viewing made directly responding to me
and he just defended his claim that he's
actually cured an incurable disease by
eating more bananas and sleeping better
and exercising better now that is I
stand by my claims that is
scientifically impossible and is untrue
durianrider has not cured Crohn's
disease we could talk about that we
could have addressed and resolved that
why is my ex why are you bringing in my
ex-wife and my daughter you know just
why but I mean if you have any questions
about it this is the kind of topic where
like I'm
willing to talk about it openly but most
people is done they want to know I mean
I'm divorced I have a four-year-old
daughter I've talked about it a lot of
my channel my ex-wife declared me in
French missing without a trace so that's
the equivalent of being m.i.a in other
countries I'm missing missing in action
or of being legally dead so I have the
status in France as if I'm dead because
I know I have to choose my words
carefully my ex-wife filed paperwork
insinuating that I had disappeared
without a trace that I was in effect
dead or a disappear and there was no way
to find me there was no way to locate me
and during that whole period of time we
had email correspondence went back but I
have a youtube channel in case you
haven't noticed anyone could have found
me by putting my name into Google but
it's completely untrue and even after
like we didn't we didn't ever stop
talking so the reason why I haven't been
able to see my daughter in the last
couple of years is because I'm legally
dead to simplify so it's a very very
nasty situation most Americans
understand that because under American
law that happens quite a lot in the u.s.
that's not that unusual for people to
try to take away your property or take
away your kids or do something bad to
you by creating the illusion that you've
died or disappeared legally so that's
still what's being addressed I'm hoping
that just in the next few weeks I
finally get a court ruling that will
rectify that but that's a very very
serious situation and as far as I know
my ex-wife also will face criminal
charges
so that short term that's how she
separated me from my daughter but
otherwise I mean look you know I've
written long blog entries talking about
the marriage and how it ended and I
wrote those primarily so that my
daughter herself could read them one day
could read about my divorce and know
more about it you know why no why me and
my mom broke up none of it has ever been
secret if anything like I'm so willing
to talk about it most people find it
boring you know what I mean and even
other people who got in touch with me
saying they want to do a podcast and
need to talk about it then it's like
okay so what do you want to know and
they kind of blank out and realize they
don't really want to know anything they
just got this impression from
durianrider that it's somehow mysterious
and secret when nothing about it ever
was
mr. secret you know what I mean so yeah
you know um you know I love my daughter
I miss my daughter I made many videos
reflecting on that and terms of the
legal process I have 100% played by the
book I just got a lawyer and going
through the process and and that's it
there is nothing else I can do until you
know the legal process itself proceeds
in France on somebody who has a long
deep involvement with Thailand I was
first going to Thailand I think 2002 or
2003 I've studied the history of
Thailand the languages and politics town
would have really been engaged in
meaningful with Thailand and I also have
a long history with long-distance
cycling in Thailand so I think I
mentioned that's you an email or
something but like once I rode my bike
from VN Chen the capital city of Laos
all the way south to the border with
Cambodia so going across the Sampo tell
I once went west going trying to go all
the way from VN Chen to Chiang Mai I did
not get that far for the reasons I have
a lot of anecdotes myself about
long-distance cycling in Thailand but
when I did that I was not on vacation I
was not I was not just having a good
time I was not just trying to get laid
or hanging out with other vegans
everyone say I was also doing
humanitarian work I was engaged in the
politics in history and above all in the
study of languages and also in the study
of Buddhism I was going to put his
Temple study senior I was reading I was
living a really meaningful life while I
was in Thailand and doing the appliance
and cycling in Thailand there's a big
misconception I heard a couple of a
couple of YouTube channels saying this
that somehow like I just hate Chiang Mai
or that I hate riding a bicycle in
Chiang Mai and my answer that is like
well no I've said very nuanced things at
quite some length about that where my
point is well going on vacation is okay
fine you want to go on a two-week
vacation or even a two-month vocation
education I've said that repeatedly but
I actually think it's really bad and
dangerous to go on permanent vacation
and I myself I've gone on vacation you
know I mean and I've gone on bike trips
bike trip lasts a couple days or
whatever you challenge yourself I used
to do 115 kilometres a day I have no
problem with that you know what I mean
now but if that really takes over your
life in that way well that's all you've
got going on
yeah I do think that's sick and sad and
bad and dangerous I would say the same
about a lot of other hobbies you know I
mean this is the only thing you've got
all you do is play video games if all
you do is watch movies or you know with
sports if you're obsessed with football
and that's really all your life I do I
do think that's a problem and I think
it's worthwhile to talk about that in oh
boy especially given the background the
experience of God now like beyond that
okay go so just for you know like if you
ask me like have I ever called someone
an idiot like how have I ever said like
this person you know who's riding a
bicycle in Thailand is [ __ ] waste my
life is it a Oprah sure um you know
example is like vegan Ava like you know
but like you know can I say to you like
wow I feel really bad for calling vegan
Ava [ __ ] [ __ ] No
and you know you can go back and watch
that video and watch it in context and
let you know for sure like I'm calling
vegan Ava [ __ ] but I also did reach out
to vegan Ava positively even though she
had defamed me and said terrible things
about both claiming like the court case
was a scam which is not you all know
that now and terrible things about my
personal life my private life same kind
of service durianrider claiming like i'm
a wife beater and I'm a terrible person
and I still research overlooked you want
to talk to me I'm regular same I'm
talking you now if we can talk about
really I can show you legal documents we
can actually move forward this you can
stop slandering it defaming me you can
know what's really going on so even
somebody like that but sure like have I
called vegan Ava an idiot yes and it's
still an amusing video and that's not
the deepest contact on my channel but I
do have I do have deep meaningful
content talking about what was going on
in the Chiangmai vegan scene and what my
reservations are on both the positive
and the negative oh but yeah I don't
think it's like a simple one-sided thing
it's not like I said everybody riding a
bicycle in Chiang Mai is an idiot
do I think vegan eight is an idiot yes I
do and is vegan about what four five I
go yes so you know yeah there's that you
know guilty as charged
I have definitely called some particular
people one on bicycle idiots another
example you know like a happy healthy
ninety-six
I had videos way back like more year ago
really saying to her look I know you
think this is a good move to drop
Reading University and go to chain my to
ride a bicycle but really think it
through really
your long-term so yeah you know what I
mean like sure there are particular
people was really saying look this is
going to impact you for the rest of your
life you got to think about but no I
don't think it's true that my position
was ever like everyone who rides a
bicycle is an idiot no so okay so that's
a great question so I'll restate the
question here so the question was did I
paint everyone with the same brush like
everyone is vegan Ava like everyone
wants to be on permit vacation everyone
just wants to make money on YouTube
showing off this lifestyle and Chiang
Mai or did I recognize that some some
people in Chiang Mai part of the scene
work more intelligent notice I've got a
great example a great counter example of
that which is before any of the sex
scandal broke Hanna Chloe so I knew
Hannah Chloe for a couple of years just
via Facebook messages and I made a video
that is confronting her but I've talked
her about it
dr. Burton on skype I made a video where
I was saying to Hanna Chloe look you're
not this stupid stop pretending to be
stupid to fit him with a chain my scene
but she made videos where she was really
kind of imitating people like freely and
happy healthy ninety six and I said look
I've talked to you I know you you know
she was in school and had a part-time
job so she was studying Thai in a
university program and I think she Ari
has a master's degree she was somebody
who had intellectual address like I
didn't try to go talk to her she was not
the bimbo she was pretending to be so
that's a really interesting example that
was not just that I'm not saying
somebody's an idiot like I'm not calling
her I don't regard Hannah Chloe as being
as stupid and worthless as vegan Ava but
where I'm really pointing a look part of
the problem here is that people like
anta Chloe even if they are intelligent
if they have something going on positive
learning was you wouldn't know it from
the YouTube channel she never once
discussed like what it was like being in
classes and learning Thai she never once
discussed her job what was going on to
office so for me it's like what you're
creating this illusion that you're on
permanent vacation as some of the other
people are but actually you have a lot
more meaningful stuff going of actually
you're smarter than you appear to be so
that's also a really interesting example
so like if you ask well do I feed
everyone with one with the sort of same
brush stroke okay look hey we got a
suicide how do those people paint me
they really misrepresent reading my
you know that you know that the during
the motor stylize and defamation but not
only do I not do that I thought one of
the interesting side effects was that
even when people did have some real
substance they were kind of hiding it
just try to be like freely you know this
for me this is the real moral of the
story with Sam if you've got a problem
with somebody if you've got a
disagreement simply whether it's on
YouTube or you know in the workplace or
anything else there's a difference
between addressing that problem and
trying to destroy their lives and what
durianrider does is not addressing the
problem like okay so there's a problem
here and this is basically about the
ethics of bike racing that's what the
problem is you can address that without
trying to you know make salacious claims
about their sex life and their personal
life and their drug use I mean because
that's what I've seen from Harley
everything he could possibly say to
black and this guy Sam's character
that's what he gets out and you know I
mean he's done worse I mean both with me
and with Jason Posey know he'll get your
mom involved you know get on the phone
to your relatives there is really no
limit he'll Docs you you know try to
expose public information about you doc
saying is violating most of the rules so
again
alright so Sam [ __ ] up into my
impression Sam has apologized for you
know basically breaking the code of the
road and breaking the ethics of bike
racing which even within the sport
I understand it's taken seriously
because bike racing is its own you know
its own little demi-monde okay but you
can address that without trying to
destroy somebody's life and anything bad
I did like look if you watch more of my
videos there may be some stuff that
offends you or upset you you know if I
say something you find offensive about
thailand's or politics or about
particular people on YouTube or
something it's possible most of the time
when people actually watch my videos
they're shocked at how much less
offensive they are like I made a video
recently about Sonya Elsie who's you
know a well-known vegan and I think
people just see the title and assume
it's really offensive but if you
actually watch the video what I have to
say is it's not offensive there's always
kind of mismatched expectations that way
um but like dude you can address that
with me or we can address it publicly it
can be a public YouTube debate or
whatever without taking it over those
limits
there's just no reason you know
addressing a problem is different
somebody trying to destroy somebody's
life and I think that's that's part of
the sad context of this conversation
we're in right now is you're going to
remain anonymous we're not going to use
your face your name because you know if
you say or do anything that's critical
of durianrider he's going to try to
destroy your life so I'm going to give
you a shallow answer and a deep answer
the shallow answer is just like remember
I see Chiangmai in the context of this
whole part of Asia and look one of the
things have said again again is look if
you're a young person who's trying to
get out to see the world there are I
think other more important things to see
even with in Thailand than Ching mine
there's my honest opinion whether you're
interested in cycling or veganism or
Buddhism you want to see Buddhist
temples or the history or archeology or
museums there is a lot we're seeing in
Thailand but in my honest opinion none
of it is in chiang mai when i'm giving
advice to people including people going
on long distance bike trips I talked to
Dexter and I was saying to dexter
because i've done long distance bike
trips like okay over here in thailand
this is a beautiful area that's an
interesting area you can see this museum
you can visit se-jin temple so in part
of it just is look practical
down-to-earth advice I don't want to
glorify Chiang Mai because in my opinion
there are better options
even within Thailand just to go as a
tourist or yard I'll have a vegan
festival and there are better options
than Asia as a whole right so you give
one example many times have said to
people the strongest vegan culture and
Asia is in Taiwan you know you can also
do long-distance cycling in Taiwan by
the way they have a big culture for that
and there's an annual vegan festival
that just happened about one week ago
I think the 12th of the 15th of this
month it's one of the biggest vegan
festivals in the world and unlike during
writers think it's a serious vegan
festival you know and you have activists
there and Buddhists religious
organizations you have a whole range of
people coming together so you know one
of the the shallow reason is you'll want
to talk about these things that we're
not wasting our time and not making bad
choices right like even if it's just I'm
talking to a friend
they're an acquaintance who's planning a
trip to Thailand it's like well yeah you
can go to Chiang Mai but let's really
look at what you're going to do in your
limited time and money in Thailand and
the other hand if we're looking at the
whole world a lot of these people it's
like well have you thought about going
to see the pyramids in Egypt like for
the same amount of money you might be
able to something really meaningful it's
going to change your life and have you
thought about your own education and
future what you're learning you know I
talked about that stuff to death on my
channel because for me I had all kinds
of reasons to be in Thailand I was
studying Palli I was studying Buddhism a
study Nepal exciting life so I had
reasons why Thailand was a rewarding
place to be but if you don't then I
think you got to think about that
strategically that's the shallow part of
the answer the deeper part of the answer
is I use these phrases on my channel
like keeping it real but I used to be a
Buddhist why did I leave the Buddhist
religion ultimately ultimately it's
because I do not want to be part of a
religion that is built on a lie I don't
want to live a lie period and you know I
don't want to lie about Thailand or Laos
or Cambodia and some things no I don't
lie about those involved with politics
of First Nations people to create a jib
way the native people in Canada I'm not
looking okay what maybe I should make
videos saying it's really wonderful to
study the Cree language at First Nations
University can and maybe that would
boost it up that's never been my
approach it's always been look I'm going
to come out here and tell the truth I
don't want to be part of a religion
that's based on a lie you know I was
basically raised in left-wing politics
and I quit left-wing politics I'm now
kind of a moderate practical pragmatic
centrist or whatever I don't want to be
part of a political movement it's based
on a lie I think in a lot of ways subtle
and profound as soon as you take that
step into making basically propaganda
whether it's for a political cause or
for a religious cause or even just for
tourism then I think you know in a
subtle and profound way you're crossing
the line into living a lie it's kind of
a long conversation - but no I really
refuse to do that and it's like right
now if you want ask me I'm living this
gorgeous part of China if you want to
ask me what it's like here I'm going to
tell you about both the good and the bad
of it you know there are ways in which
it's just amazingly beautiful wonderful
year but I'm not going to lie to you
and for that reason the positive things
I tell you I think should be more
meaningful because it's in a context
what I'm really keeping it real I'm
really going to give it to you long
that's sorry that's my understand it's
not the case that as a white person on
the outside you can just kind of buy an
airplane ticket or buy a bus ticket and
show up and make a positive difference
it normally does take years of engaging
with the language in Thailand this
language barrier and making connections
and knowing people politically unless
you show up with millions of dollars to
start your own your own foundation
that's a very very difficult road to hoe
but so again I'm keeping it real
I'm not going to tell you that it's that
it's really easy to make a make a
positive difference but I'll tell you
one thing it's easy to care caring and
compassion will lead you to a kind of
engagement where where you really learn
where you start learning more and more
when I was living in Laos just because I
cared you know I got into conversations
with people about their experiences
during the war you know watching people
getting blown to pieces by bombs you
learn about that side of their lives and
who they are and what they're doing and
that kind of just just caring just being
interested and why did they tell me
those stories because I was already
knowledgeable because I'd already done a
lot of research they wouldn't have told
those stories to someone who was just an
ignorant tourist ooh got off the train
but I mean caring and compassion I've
said before I think they're really most
useful as a kind of research tool
because you're caring because you're
compassionate because you're engaged
that's going to lead you into situations
where you're going to learn and then
eventually after that learning you can
make some kind of really meaningful
positive difference but say look you
can't you show up in New York City and
help homeless people you can try but
even in the West it's not that easy to
show up as a tourist and get involved
with something really meaningful and
really positive no that's it I mean I'll
close this up with you know with my
catch phrase either it's about the
future of the vegan movement or it's not
about anything in a whole ultimately all
this stuff matters to me because the
future of the vegan movement and that's
the question I think all of us are
asking ourselves in ways both deep and
shallow the future of the vegan movement
is not freely
the future of the vegan movement is not
durianrider and when I first said that
two years ago it was controversial and
now I don't think anyone would even
disagree two years ago they were out
here saying that they were the most
effective vegan activist in the world
and that this was the way forward for
veganism and there were guys like me who
were critics are they're saying no this
is not the future of the vegan movement
we got to really think about strategy
and tactics and politics and how we're
going to move forward this movement and
even the people who hate me all of you
agree with me now all of you know the
future the vegan movement is not very
mightor and it's not freely and if you
have your own YouTube channel it's not
going to be imitating during alignment
freely as I understand